{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12040\viewh15920\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs22 \cf2 \CocoaLigature0 Research
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Report:
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Stephen
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Coy
\f1\b0  
\f0\b &
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Mary
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Polly
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Million
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Adams,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Clay
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0 \
       
\f0\b Illinois
\f1\b0 \
\
       ---\
       
\f0\b What
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Was
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Confirmed
\f1\b0 \
\
       
\f0\b Stephen
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Coy
\f1\b0  appears in the 
\f0\b 1840
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Federal
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Census
\f1\b0  
\f0\b for
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Clay
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Illinois
\f1\b0 \
        (page 7, line 2 \'97 the earliest surviving federal census for Clay\
       County). His household at that time shows:\
       - Free White Males: 1 aged 5\'9610, 1 aged 10\'9615, 2 aged 20\'9630, 1 aged\
       40\'9650 (Stephen himself, ~age\'a050)\
       - Free White Females: 1 aged 5\'9610, 1 aged 10\'9615, 1 aged 15\'9620, 1 aged\
       40\'9650 (Polly, ~age 40+)\
\
       This is the only Coy household found in Clay County's 1840 census. No\
       Coy land entry appears in the Clay County public land sales database\
       (which may simply reflect that Stephen either rented, inherited, or\
       purchased through a secondary transaction rather than direct government\
       patent). Clay County kept land records from 1825, court records from\
       1825, and probate from 1827, so if Stephen died ~1840, there is likely a\
        probate record or estate filing at the Clay County Circuit Court\
       Clerk's office in Louisville, IL \'97 this has not been digitized and would\
        require a direct request to the courthouse or IRAD at Eastern Illinois\
       University.\
\
       
\f0\b The
\f1\b0  
\f0\b marriage
\f1\b0  
\f0\b record
\f1\b0  is confirmed: Stephen Coy married 
\f0\b Polly
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Million
\f1\b0  on\
       
\f0\b 27
\f1\b0  
\f0\b July
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 1817
\f1\b0  
\f0\b in
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Madison
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Kentucky
\f1\b0 . This comes from the Madison\
       County Kentucky marriage index (via the RootsWeb Cramsey transcription),\
        which also records 
\f0\b "Coy,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Polly"
\f1\b0  marrying Isaac Embry on 6 March 1817 in\
        the same county \'97 suggesting a Coy family was already established in\
       Madison County, KY.\
\
       
\f0\b Stephen's
\f1\b0  
\f0\b birth
\f1\b0  
\f0\b location
\f1\b0  is listed in at least one genealogical database\
        as Amherst County, Virginia (~1790) \'97 consistent with the migration\
       corridor.\
\
       ---\
       
\f0\b Goal
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 1:
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Historical
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Records
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Mentioning
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Stephen
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Coy
\f1\b0  
\f0\b in
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Clay
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b IL
\f1\b0 \
\
       
\f0\b What
\f1\b0  
\f0\b was
\f1\b0  
\f0\b found:
\f1\b0 \
       - 
\f0\b 1840
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Federal
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Census,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Clay
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b IL
\f1\b0 : Confirmed. Stephen Coy, head of\
       household, ~age 40\'9650, with a wife ~40\'9650 and several children still at\
       home.\
       - 
\f0\b Clay
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County
\f1\b0  
\f0\b was
\f1\b0  
\f0\b formed
\f1\b0  
\f0\b December
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 23,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 1824
\f1\b0  from portions of Fayette,\
       Wayne, Lawrence, and Crawford counties. The county seat was Maysville\
       until 1841, then Louisville.\
       - 
\f0\b No
\f1\b0  
\f0\b land
\f1\b0  
\f0\b patent
\f1\b0  in Stephen's name appears in the Illinois Public Domain\
        Land Tract Sales database for Clay County (C-surnames were fully\
       checked). This is notable \'97 it may indicate he entered land in the late\
       1820s or early 1830s before the database's earliest coverage, or\
       purchased from a prior patentee.\
       - 
\f0\b No
\f1\b0  
\f0\b biography
\f1\b0  in the 1884 History of Wayne and Clay Counties or the\
       1912 History of Southern Illinois. These county histories tended to\
       document later, more prominent families rather than early frontier\
       settlers of modest means.\
       - 
\f0\b The
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 1830
\f1\b0  
\f0\b census
\f1\b0  
\f0\b for
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Clay
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County
\f1\b0  is not transcribed online, so his\
       presence there has not been verified directly \'97 but given his 1840\
       household (children aged 5\'9615), he was certainly settled in Clay County\
       by the mid-1820s or early 1830s at the latest.\
\
       
\f0\b Where
\f1\b0  
\f0\b to
\f1\b0  
\f0\b look
\f1\b0  
\f0\b next:
\f1\b0 \
       - Clay County Circuit Court probate records 1837\'961925 at IRAD-EIU\
       (Eastern Illinois University archives) \'97 a probate file for "Stephen\
       Coy" ~1840 would be the single most valuable record.\
       - The BLM GLO records database at glorecords.blm.gov (search: Last Name\
       = Coy, State = Illinois, County = Clay) \'97 the database was down during\
       this research but should be tried.\
       - Illinois Public Domain Land Tract Sales at\
       apps.ilsos.gov/isa/landSalesSearch.do \'97 search "Coy" in Clay County for\
       any year.\
       - The Clay County Genealogical Society Library in Louisville, IL holds\
       census records, marriage records, and cemetery records not yet\
       digitized. Contact: ccgsilib.org.\
\
       ---\
       
\f0\b Goal
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 2:
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Who
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Was
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Mary
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Polly
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Million
\f1\b0  
\f0\b /
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Million
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Adams?
\f1\b0 \
\
       
\f0\b What
\f1\b0  
\f0\b was
\f1\b0  
\f0\b found:
\f1\b0 \
\
       The name "Mary Polly Million Adams" as recorded likely reflects a naming\
        convention rather than a double married name. The structure "Polly\
       Adams Million" in the marriage record (Stephen Coy m. 
\f0\b Million,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Polly
\f1\b0  \'97\
       27 Jul 1817, Madison Co., KY) places "Million" definitively as her\
       
\f0\b maiden
\f1\b0  
\f0\b name
\f1\b0 . The "Adams" element in her recorded name is almost\
       certainly her 
\f0\b middle
\f1\b0  
\f0\b name
\f1\b0 , not a prior married surname \'97 this was a\
       common practice, particularly in Virginia and Kentucky families, where\
       children received a maternal surname as a middle name.\
\
       
\f0\b The
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Million
\f1\b0  
\f0\b family
\f1\b0  
\f0\b and
\f1\b0  
\f0\b their
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Virginia-to-Kentucky
\f1\b0  
\f0\b migration:
\f1\b0 \
\
       The Million family is very well documented and follows the exact\
       corridor you'd expect. They originate from 
\f0\b Overwharton
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Parish,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Stafford
\f1\b0 \
       
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Virginia
\f1\b0 , where 
\f0\b Robert
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Evan
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Million
\f1\b0  
\f0\b II
\f1\b0  
\f0\b (1725\'961800)
\f1\b0  and his wife\
       
\f0\b Keziah
\f1\b0  
\f0\b (Holliday)
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Million
\f1\b0  
\f0\b (1729\'961790)
\f1\b0  raised at least 12 children. Their\
        documented children include:\
       - Daniel Benjamin Million (b. 1750, died 1816 in Estill Co., KY)\
       - Jemima Million\
       - Cytha "Sithy" Million\
       - Sarah Ann (Million) Combs (1756\'961843, died in 
\f0\b Edgar
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Illinois
\f1\b0  \'97\
        just northeast of Clay County)\
       - John Million Sr. (1763\'961850, died in 
\f0\b Madison
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Kentucky
\f1\b0 )\
       - Travis Million\
       - Cuthbert Million (1769\'961848, died in Greenup Co., KY)\
       - William Bennett Million / George Washington Million / others\
\
       The key figure is 
\f0\b John
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Million
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Sr.
\f1\b0  
\f0\b (b.
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 10
\f1\b0  
\f0\b May
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 1763,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Stafford
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Co.,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b VA
\f1\b0  
\f0\b \'97
\f1\b0 \
       
\f0\b d.
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 3
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Jun
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 1850,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Madison
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Co.,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b KY)
\f1\b0 , who married 
\f0\b Lydia
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Butler
\f1\b0  
\f0\b on
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 24
\f1\b0  
\f0\b April
\f1\b0 \
       
\f0\b 1787
\f1\b0  
\f0\b in
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Madison
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Kentucky
\f1\b0 . He had at least 12 children, including\
        
\f0\b George
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Million
\f1\b0  
\f0\b (b.
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 9
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Jan
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 1790,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Madison
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b KY)
\f1\b0 . John Million went\
       to Kentucky in 1783 (per his Revolutionary War pension deposition) and\
       was firmly established in Madison County, KY by 1787.\
\
       A separate marriage record from Madison County shows 
\f0\b "Polly
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Million"
\f1\b0 \
       
\f0\b married
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Joel
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Sanders
\f1\b0  
\f0\b on
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 16
\f1\b0  
\f0\b November
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 1817
\f1\b0  \'97 just four months after\
       Stephen Coy married Polly Million on 27 July 1817. These are clearly two\
        different women, both named Polly Million, which strongly suggests they\
        were sisters \'97 daughters of John Million and Lydia Butler. This would\
       make 
\f0\b Mary
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Polly
\f1\b0  
\f0\b (Adams)
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Million
\f1\b0  
\f0\b a
\f1\b0  
\f0\b daughter
\f1\b0  
\f0\b of
\f1\b0  
\f0\b John
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Million
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Sr.
\f1\b0  
\f0\b and
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Lydia
\f1\b0 \
       
\f0\b  Butler
\f1\b0 , born around 1795\'961797, likely in Madison County, KY, and the\
       "Adams" element her middle name from a maternal family line.\
\
       Note also: 
\f0\b Sarah
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Ann
\f1\b0  
\f0\b (Million)
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Combs
\f1\b0 , John's sister, ended up in 
\f0\b Edgar
\f1\b0 \
       
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Illinois
\f1\b0  \'97 the next county north of Clay County along the\
       Wabash-to-Illinois corridor. This suggests the extended Million network\
       was spreading into exactly that part of Illinois in the same generation.\
\
       
\f0\b What
\f1\b0  
\f0\b "Adams"
\f1\b0  
\f0\b most
\f1\b0  
\f0\b likely
\f1\b0  
\f0\b means:
\f1\b0 \
       In early American naming practice, particularly in the Upper South and\
       border states, a woman's maiden name (especially the mother's family\
       name) was often given as a middle name. "Adams" was likely her mother\
       Lydia (Butler) Million's family surname or a maternal grandparent's name\
        passed down. An alternative \'97 a prior marriage \'97 is less likely given\
       that she married at approximately age 20 and the marriage record gives\
       her surname simply as "Million."\
\
       
\f0\b The
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Million
\f1\b0  
\f0\b surname
\f1\b0  
\f0\b is
\f1\b0  
\f0\b not
\f1\b0  
\f0\b common
\f1\b0  
\f0\b but
\f1\b0  
\f0\b is
\f1\b0  
\f0\b not
\f1\b0  
\f0\b rare
\f1\b0  in the Stafford\
       County, VA \uc0\u8594  Madison County, KY corridor. The family's presence is\
       extremely well established in both locations and in early Illinois\
       (Edgar County). This migration corridor matches perfectly with what you\
       know about Stephen and Polly ending up in Clay County, IL.\
\
       ---\
       
\f0\b Goal
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 3:
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Life
\f1\b0  
\f0\b in
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Clay
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b IL
\f1\b0  
\f0\b in
\f1\b0  
\f0\b the
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 1820s\'961840s
\f1\b0 \
\
       
\f0\b What
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Pioneer
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Life
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Looked
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Like
\f1\b0  
\f0\b for
\f1\b0  
\f0\b a
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Settler
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Like
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Stephen
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Coy:
\f1\b0 \
\
       Clay County was carved from the wilderness between 1818 and 1824. The\
       first permanent settlers arrived after the conclusion of the War of 1812\
        Indian conflicts (~1815\'961818). The county was formally organized in\
       December 1824.\
\
       By the time Stephen and Polly likely arrived (probably ~1820\'961825, after\
        their 1817 Kentucky marriage and the birth of son William in 1814 \'97\
       note: if William was born 1814, Stephen may have been in the region\
       earlier, possibly in Lawrence County before Clay County was organized),\
       the area was raw frontier.\
\
       
\f0\b Farming:
\f1\b0  Settlers grew corn, wheat, and vegetables and raised hogs and\
       cattle. Hogs were turned loose in the timber bottoms in autumn to fatten\
        on acorn and hickory mast \'97 a self-feeding system requiring minimal\
       investment. Corn was the staple crop. Fencing rules were established by\
       1834. Labor was extremely scarce; families did all their own work.\
\
       
\f0\b Markets:
\f1\b0  The great challenge of Clay County was its inland location. In\
       the 1820s and into the 1840s, farmers 
\f0\b built
\f1\b0  
\f0\b flatboats
\f1\b0  
\f0\b on
\f1\b0  
\f0\b the
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Little
\f1\b0 \
       
\f0\b Wabash
\f1\b0  
\f0\b River
\f1\b0 , loading bags of grain and barrels of pickled pork, and\
       floated them down the Little Wabash to the Wabash River, then to the\
       Ohio, then down the Mississippi all the way to 
\f0\b New
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Orleans
\f1\b0  \'97 a round\
       trip of months. This was the primary cash economy. By the 1840s this\
       became more regularized.\
\
       
\f0\b Land:
\f1\b0  The first generation of Clay County settlers entered land from the\
        federal government at $1.25/acre minimum (set by the Land Act of 1820).\
        An 80-acre entry cost $100 \'97 substantial but achievable. Many settlers\
       entered 40\'9680 acres initially. The county seat moved from Maysville to\
       Louisville in 1841.\
\
       
\f0\b Communities:
\f1\b0  Tiny and scattered. Churches (often Methodist or Baptist,\
       the dominant faiths of Scots-Irish Appalachian migrants) doubled as\
       community centers. Schools were one-room log cabins charging ~$2.50 per\
       pupil per quarter. The region attracted settlers primarily from Indiana,\
        Kentucky, and Tennessee \'97 a mix reflecting the Appalachian/Upper South\
       migration pattern.\
\
       
\f0\b Stephen's
\f1\b0  
\f0\b likely
\f1\b0  
\f0\b occupation:
\f1\b0  Subsistence farmer with a hog-and-corn\
       operation, probably with some livestock on open range, and likely\
       participating in the flatboat trade at least occasionally. His household\
        in 1840 shows adult children (one or two sons aged 20\'9630), meaning he\
       would have had considerable help in the fields by the late 1830s.\
\
       ---\
       
\f0\b Goal
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 4:
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Christopher
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Coy
\f1\b0  
\f0\b as
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Stephen's
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Father
\f1\b0  
\f0\b \'97
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Evidence
\f1\b0  
\f0\b For
\f1\b0  
\f0\b and
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Against
\f1\b0 \
\
       
\f0\b The
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Christopher
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Coy
\f1\b0  
\f0\b most
\f1\b0  
\f0\b commonly
\f1\b0  
\f0\b cited
\f1\b0  
\f0\b in
\f1\b0  
\f0\b genealogical
\f1\b0  
\f0\b databases
\f1\b0  is:\
       - 
\f0\b Christopher
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Coy
\f1\b0  
\f0\b (c.
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 1751,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Somerset/Montgomery
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Co.,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b MD
\f1\b0  
\f0\b \'97
\f1\b0  
\f0\b d.
\f1\b0  
\f0\b before
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 12
\f1\b0 \
       
\f0\b Oct
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 1839,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Bridgeport,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Lawrence
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Co.,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b IL)
\f1\b0 \
       - Married Elizabeth Tucker, 15 April 1773, Worcester County, Maryland\
       - Revolutionary War veteran (DAR Ancestor #A027112), served in Maryland\
       militia, participated at Yorktown\
       - Parents: John Coy Sr. (1725\'961756) and Sarah (Woodbury) Coy\
       - Documented children (per WikiTree Coy-151 and Geni): Anna Coy\
       (b.\'a01778), Elizabeth (Coy) Neff (b. 1792, Amherst County, VA \'97 note the\
       Amherst connection), John Coy (b. 1793, Frederick, MD), William Coy (b.\
       1803, KY)\
       - He died in 
\f0\b Bridgeport,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Lawrence
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Illinois
\f1\b0  \'97 Lawrence County\
       adjoins Clay County to the east.\
\
       
\f0\b Evidence
\f1\b0  
\f0\b supporting
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Christopher
\f1\b0  
\f0\b as
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Stephen's
\f1\b0  
\f0\b father:
\f1\b0 \
       1. Elizabeth (Coy) Neff is listed as born in 
\f0\b Amherst
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Virginia
\f1\b0 \
       
\f0\b (~1792)
\f1\b0  \'97 the same county and approximate time as Stephen's birth\
       (~1790, Amherst, Virginia). This puts Christopher's family in Amherst,\
       VA during the period when Stephen would have been born.\
       2. Christopher ended his days in 
\f0\b Lawrence
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Illinois
\f1\b0 , just east of\
        Clay County \'97 the same general region where Stephen settled. This is\
       geographic proximity consistent with family members following each\
       other.\
       3. The broader Coy family (John Coy Sr., John Jr., Daniel Coy, William\
       Coy) had a documented presence in 
\f0\b Nelson
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Kentucky
\f1\b0  by the\
       1780s\'961787 (per the tithables list), and the family moved through\
       Maryland \uc0\u8594  Virginia (Nelson/Amherst) \u8594  Kentucky \u8594  Illinois in exactly\
       the pattern observed for Stephen.\
       4. The Anthony Coy household in 
\f0\b Amherst
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County
\f1\b0  
\f0\b in
\f1\b0  
\f0\b the
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 1810
\f1\b0  
\f0\b census
\f1\b0  (3\
       "other free" persons) is a potential sibling or relative of Stephen's,\
       further confirming Coy family presence in Amherst.\
\
       
\f0\b Evidence
\f1\b0  
\f0\b against
\f1\b0  
\f0\b or
\f1\b0  
\f0\b complicating
\f1\b0  
\f0\b factors:
\f1\b0 \
       1. Christopher's 
\f0\b documented
\f1\b0  
\f0\b children
\f1\b0  
\f0\b in
\f1\b0  
\f0\b the
\f1\b0  
\f0\b WikiTree
\f1\b0  
\f0\b profile
\f1\b0  do not\
       include Stephen \'97 but that profile only lists 4 children and is\
       acknowledged as incomplete. A Revolutionary War veteran with a 20+ year\
       marriage would likely have more children than are documented.\
       2. The Heinegg "Free African Americans" database lists a 
\f0\b "COY
\f1\b0  
\f0\b FAMILY"
\f1\b0  in\
        Amherst County with an 
\f0\b Anthony
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Coy
\f1\b0  (head of household, 3 "other free"\
       persons,\'a01810) \'97 suggesting that the Coy family in Amherst may have been\
        classified as free people of color. Heinegg's research documents\
       families of mixed African, European, and sometimes Native American\
       ancestry. If the Amherst Coys were of this classification, it would\
       explain why Anthony and Stephen don't appear in standard white household\
        counts and why their ancestry is harder to trace. However, this needs\
       caution \'97 the Anthony Coy in the "other free" list could be a different\
       family, and the Coy family documented by Heinegg (Sarah Coy, Charles\
       Coy) is rooted in 
\f0\b Powhatan
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County
\f1\b0 , not Amherst. The evidence is\
       suggestive but not conclusive.\
       3. There is 
\f0\b no
\f1\b0  
\f0\b direct
\f1\b0  
\f0\b documented
\f1\b0  
\f0\b link
\f1\b0  in any currently accessible public\
        genealogical record explicitly naming Stephen Coy as the son of\
       Christopher Coy. The connection appears to come from family trees in\
       databases like Ancestry and FamilySearch, which are sometimes built on\
       inference rather than primary sources.\
\
       
\f0\b Bottom
\f1\b0  
\f0\b line
\f1\b0  
\f0\b on
\f1\b0  
\f0\b the
\f1\b0  
\f0\b parentage
\f1\b0  
\f0\b question:
\f1\b0  The Christopher Coy connection is\
        plausible and geographically coherent \'97 Christopher was in Amherst, VA\
       around Stephen's birth, had other children born in Amherst, and died in\
       adjacent Lawrence County, IL. But it remains unconfirmed by primary\
       documents. The more important uncertainty is whether the Amherst Coys\
       were the same family as the Maryland/Revolutionary War Coy line, or a\
       separate Coy family in Virginia. To confirm, you would need:\
       - Christopher Coy's Virginia land or court records from Amherst County\
       (~1785\'961800)\
       - Christopher Coy's pension file from the National Archives (NARA series\
        M804) \'97 it may list children by name\
       - An Amherst County deed or court record naming Stephen Coy with a\
       parent\
\
       ---\
       
\f0\b Goal
\f1\b0  
\f0\b 5:
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Other
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Coy
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Families
\f1\b0  
\f0\b in
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Clay
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County
\f1\b0  
\f0\b /
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Southern
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Illinois
\f1\b0 \
\
       
\f0\b Documented
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Coy
\f1\b0  
\f0\b family
\f1\b0  
\f0\b presence
\f1\b0  
\f0\b in
\f1\b0  
\f0\b the
\f1\b0  
\f0\b region:
\f1\b0 \
       - 
\f0\b Christopher
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Coy
\f1\b0  (c. 1751\'961839): Died in 
\f0\b Bridgeport,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Lawrence
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0 \
       
\f0\b IL
\f1\b0  (adjacent to Clay County), buried at Spring Hill Cemetery. His\
       presence here is confirmed.\
       - 
\f0\b "Coy,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Polly"
\f1\b0  
\f0\b married
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Isaac
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Embry
\f1\b0  \'97 6 March 1817, Madison County,\
       Kentucky (3 months before Stephen's marriage). This is likely a sister\
       or close relative of Stephen Coy, suggesting a Coy family cluster in\
       Madison County, KY in the mid-1810s.\
       - 
\f0\b William
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Coy
\f1\b0  married Chandler, Siner \'97 15 December 1817, Madison\
       County, KY. Another Coy in Madison County in the same year.\
       - In the broader WikiTree survey, there are Coy family members from\
       
\f0\b Buckingham
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b VA
\f1\b0  (Samuel Coy, 1782\'961833, died Switzerland County,\
       Indiana) \'97 another southern Indiana/Illinois-adjacent location.\
       - 
\f0\b Samuel
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Coy
\f1\b0  of Buckingham County, VA appears to be connected to the\
       wider Virginia Coy family network. Buckingham County is adjacent to\
       Amherst County.\
\
       
\f0\b What
\f1\b0  
\f0\b this
\f1\b0  
\f0\b suggests:
\f1\b0  There were multiple Coy households in Madison\
       County, KY in 1817 and a Coy elder (Christopher) settled in Lawrence\
       County, IL by the 1820s\'961830s. This is consistent with an extended\
       family cluster making the VA \uc0\u8594  KY \u8594  southern IL migration together or in\
        close succession. Stephen settling in Clay County (adjacent to Lawrence\
        County, where Christopher died) fits a pattern of following a family\
       anchor.\
\
       ---\
       
\f0\b Summary
\f1\b0  
\f0\b of
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Key
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Findings
\f1\b0 \
\
       
\f0\b Finding:
\f1\b0  Stephen Coy in 1840 Clay County, IL census\
       
\f0\b Status:
\f1\b0  Confirmed\
       
\f0\b Source:
\f1\b0  GenealogyTrails Clay County 1840 census, pg. 1\
       \uc0\u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \
       
\f0\b Finding:
\f1\b0  Stephen married Polly Million, 27 Jul 1817, Madison Co., KY\
       
\f0\b Status:
\f1\b0  Confirmed\
       
\f0\b Source:
\f1\b0  Madison County KY marriage index\
       \uc0\u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \
       
\f0\b Finding:
\f1\b0  Stephen born ~1790, Amherst County, VA\
       
\f0\b Status:
\f1\b0  Likely, from secondary genealogical databases\
       
\f0\b Source:
\f1\b0  RootsWeb/FamilySearch family trees\
       \uc0\u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \
       
\f0\b Finding:
\f1\b0  Mary Polly's maiden name is Million\
       
\f0\b Status:
\f1\b0  Confirmed\
       
\f0\b Source:
\f1\b0  Marriage record reads "Million, Polly"\
       \uc0\u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \
       
\f0\b Finding:
\f1\b0  "Adams" is likely Polly's middle name, not prior married name\
       
\f0\b Status:
\f1\b0  Most probable interpretation\
       
\f0\b Source:
\f1\b0  Naming conventions; no prior Adams marriage found\
       \uc0\u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \
       
\f0\b Finding:
\f1\b0  Million family in Stafford Co., VA \uc0\u8594  Madison Co., KY\
       
\f0\b Status:
\f1\b0  Very well documented\
       
\f0\b Source:
\f1\b0  WikiTree, Combs families research, Find a Grave\
       \uc0\u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \
       
\f0\b Finding:
\f1\b0  Polly (Million) Coy likely daughter of John Million Sr. and\
       Lydia Butler\
       
\f0\b Status:
\f1\b0  Strong inference\
       
\f0\b Source:
\f1\b0  Two Polly Millions marry in Madison Co., KY in 1817; John\
       Million confirmed\
         in Madison Co.\
       \uc0\u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \
       
\f0\b Finding:
\f1\b0  Christopher Coy as Stephen's father\
       
\f0\b Status:
\f1\b0  Possible but unconfirmed\
       
\f0\b Source:
\f1\b0  Geographic coherence; no primary document\
       \uc0\u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \
       
\f0\b Finding:
\f1\b0  Christopher Coy died Lawrence County, IL (adjacent to Clay)\
       
\f0\b Status:
\f1\b0  Confirmed\
       
\f0\b Source:
\f1\b0  WikiTree Coy-151\
       \uc0\u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \
       
\f0\b Finding:
\f1\b0  No Clay County land patent for Stephen Coy in public databases\
       
\f0\b Status:
\f1\b0  No patent found\
       
\f0\b Source:
\f1\b0  Illinois Public Domain Land Tract Sales\
       \uc0\u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \u9472 \
       
\f0\b Finding:
\f1\b0  Clay County settlement: corn/hog farming, flatboat trade on\
       Little Wabash\
       
\f0\b Status:
\f1\b0  Well documented\
       
\f0\b Source:
\f1\b0  1884 and 1912 County Histories\
\
       ---\
       
\f0\b Recommended
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Next
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Research
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Steps
\f1\b0 \
\
       1. 
\f0\b National
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Archives
\f1\b0  
\f0\b pension
\f1\b0  
\f0\b file
\f1\b0  
\f0\b for
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Christopher
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Coy
\f1\b0  (NARA M804, or\
       request online at fold3.com/nara). It may list children. DAR Ancestor\
       #A027112.\
       2. 
\f0\b Clay
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County
\f1\b0  
\f0\b probate
\f1\b0  
\f0\b records
\f1\b0  (~1837\'961845) at IRAD-EIU (Eastern\
       Illinois University, Booth Library). A probate for "Stephen Coy" would\
       list heirs by name.\
       3. 
\f0\b BLM
\f1\b0  
\f0\b GLO
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Records
\f1\b0  at glorecords.blm.gov \'97 search Coy, Illinois, Clay\
       County, once the database is back online.\
       4. 
\f0\b Madison
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b KY
\f1\b0  
\f0\b marriage
\f1\b0  
\f0\b bond
\f1\b0  
\f0\b books
\f1\b0  (1786\'961851, compiled by\
       Vockery) for the original bond for Stephen Coy/Polly Million 1817, which\
        may name a bondsman from her family (often a brother or father).\
       5. 
\f0\b John
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Million
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Sr.
\f1\b0  
\f0\b pension
\f1\b0  
\f0\b file
\f1\b0  (Revolutionary War; application\'a01843)\
       at NARA \'97 it will list his children and their ages, confirming whether a\
        daughter named Polly was born ~1797.\
       6. 
\f0\b Amherst
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County,
\f1\b0  
\f0\b VA
\f1\b0  
\f0\b personal
\f1\b0  
\f0\b property
\f1\b0  
\f0\b tax
\f1\b0  
\f0\b lists
\f1\b0  1790\'961810 (available\
       via freeafricanamericans.com) \'97 searching for any Coy taxpayer other\
       than Anthony may identify Christopher or a relative.\
       7. 
\f0\b Clay
\f1\b0  
\f0\b County
\f1\b0  
\f0\b cemetery
\f1\b0  
\f0\b surveys
\f1\b0  via Illinois Gravestones\
       (illinoisgravestones.org) \'97 check for Coy graves in Sailor Springs,\
       Bible Grove, Clay City, or Louisville townships.\
\
       ---\
       
\f0\b Sources:
\f1\b0 \
       - Clay ILGenWeb \'97 Histories\
       (https://clay.illinoisgenweb.org/histories.htm)\
       - 1840 Clay County Illinois Census Transcription\
       (http://www.genealogytrails.com/ill/clay/1840_pg1.html)\
       - Clay City Township History\
       (http://www.genealogytrails.com/ill/clay/history_claycity.html)\
       - Louisville Township History\
       (http://genealogytrails.com/ill/clay/history_louisville.html)\
       - 1912 History of Southern Illinois \'97 Clay ILGenWeb\
       (https://clay.illinoisgenweb.org/hist1912soil.htm)\
       - Madison County Kentucky Marriage Records \'97 Kentucky Kindred Genealogy\
       (https://kentuckykindredgenealogy.com/2012/06/15/madison-county-kentucky\
       -marriages/)\
       - Christopher Coy (abt. 1751\'96bef. 1839) \'97 WikiTree Coy-151\
       (https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Coy-151)\
       - Bennett Million (1774\'961845) \'97 WikiTree Million-346\
       (https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Million-346)\
       - Robert Evan Million II \'97 WikiTree Million-30\
       (https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Million-30)\
       - Cuthbert Million (1769\'961848) \'97 WikiTree Million-345\
       (https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Million-345)\
       - John Million Sr. (1763\'961850) \'97 Find a Grave\
       (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/130734505/john-million)\
       - Sarah Ann (Million) Combs \'97 WikiTree Million-13\
       (https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Million-13)\
       - William & Sarah MILLION Combs of Stafford & Edgar IL\
       (https://combs-families.org/combs/families/c-wmsr.htm)\
       - Coy Genealogy \'97 WikiTree (https://www.wikitree.com/genealogy/COY)\
       - Free African Americans of Virginia \'97 freeafricanamericans.com\
       (https://freeafricanamericans.com/)\
       - 1810 Virginia Census "Other Free" Heads of Families\
       (https://freeafricanamericans.com/1810VAa.htm)\
       - 1810 Amherst County Virginia Census Index\
       (https://www.us-census.org/image-index/va/amherst/1810/index.htm)\
       - Clay County Land Records \'97 Clay ILGenWeb\
       (https://clay.illinoisgenweb.org/land.htm)\
       - Illinois Public Domain Land Tract Sales\
       (https://apps.ilsos.gov/isa/landSalesSearch.do)\
       - BLM GLO Records (https://glorecords.blm.gov/search/default.aspx)\
       - MILLION Genealogy \'97 WikiTree\
       (https://www.wikitree.com/genealogy/MILLION)\
       - Combs Families of Madison Co., Kentucky\
       (https://combs-families.org/combs/records/ky/madison/)\
       - Nicholas William Coy (1842\'961912) \'97 FamilySearch (https://ancestors.fam\
       ilysearch.org/en/KNBB-75M/nicholas-william-coy-1842-1912)\
       - William Coy (1814\'961851) \'97 FamilySearch\
       (https://ancestors.familysearch.org/en/LC5N-QMP/william-coy-1814-1851)\
       - Illinois Civil War Muster and Descriptive Rolls Database\
       (https://www.ilsos.gov/departments/archives/databases/datcivil.html)\
       - Clay County Genealogical Society (https://www.ccgsilib.org/)}