{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 William David coy \
\
https://www.facebook.com/groups/437067973791773/permalink/2073448636820357/\
\
From Geni:William David Coy, Sr. MP\
Gender: Male\
Birth: March 10, 1756\
Somerset, Montgomery County, Maryland, United States\
Death: July 10, 1833 (77)\
Vevay, Switzerland County, Indiana, United States\
Place of Burial: Florence, Switzerland County, IN, United States\
Immediate Family:\
Son of John Coy of Nelson County and Sarah Coy\
Husband of Mary Ann Coy\
Father of Thomas B. Coy; Samuel Coy; Ann Embry; Susanna "Sukey" (Coy) Embry; Esther "Hessy" (Coy) Scott and 12 others\
Brother of Mathew Coy; Samuel Coy; Christopher Coy; Sarah Danforth; John L. Coy, Jr. and 11 others\
Half brother of Boceay Coy\
DNA Markers: J2details\
Added by: Kim Keefe on August 21, 2007\
Managed by: Dan Cornett and 19 others\
Curated by: Dan Cornett\
\
A Patriot of the American Revolution for MARYLAND with the rank of PRIVATE. DAR Ancestor # A027119\
Reference: WikiTree Genealogy - SmartCopy: Jul 9 2018, 21:31:38 UTC\
Have not see any verification that the mother is Elizabeth (Betsy) Tucker (vs. Anna DeWhitt)\
=================================\
DAR:\
A027119\
Service: MARYLAND Rank: PRIVATE Birth: 3-10-1756 SOMERSET CO MARYLAND Death: 7-10-1833 SWITZERLAND CO INDIANA\
Service Description: 1) CAPT NATHANIEL PIGMAN 2) COL MORDOCK\
David William COY\
[9108]\
10 Mar 1756 - 10 Jul 1833\
* BIRTH: 10 Mar 1756, Montgomery County, Maryland\
* DEATH: 10 Jul 1833\
* BURIAL: Hominy Ridge, York Township, Switzerland County, Indiana\
Father: John COY\
Mother: Elizabeth (Betsy) TUCKER\
Family 1 : Mary Ann DENNIS\
* MARRIAGE: 25 Nov 1779, Montgomery County, Maryland\
David William COY(27) (1884) was born on 10 Mar 1756 in Somerset Co, Md. (27) He died on 10 Jul 1833 in Switzerland Co, In. (1772)(1885) Buried on the Ted Carver farm on Hominy ridge, York Township, Switzerland Co., IN.\
David "William" fought in the Revolutionary War and subsequently applied for and received a pension. While living in Switzerland Co., IN, he applied for a pension under the Act of Congress of 7Jun 1832. In this application he states,\
" I have no record of my father's Bible in which it was recorded, has been destroyed by fire, as I have been told.\
When called into the service, Ilived in Montgomery Co., MD and lived there about; 8 years aftert he war;\
I then moved onto the James River and lived there about 20 years;\
then moved to Garrard Co., KY and lived there about 20 years and\
in IN about 6 years."\
This means that William would have left KY about 1825. The interval of years given above by William is not completely accurate, but they do give an indication of where he lived at various times.William served twice in the cause for freedom, the first time he volunteered and the second time he was drafted. The the close of both enlistments, he received written discharges.\
Since he had no documentary evidence of his service he states, " In annex an affidavit made by Christopher Coy, who resides in Washington Co., IN, taken on the 25 Oct 1831."\
The affidavit reads,"Christopher Coy, a man of lawful age, after being duly sworn according to law and saith that William Coy of the county aforesaid and the state aforesaid, did serve as a private in the 7th Regiment Maryland Militia, commanded by Colonel Mordock in Captain Pigman's company and that he served in all , about 9months, also he was in the Battle of Germantown". Parents: John COY Sr. and Anna.\
He was married to Mary Ann DENNIS on 25 Nov 1779 in Montgomery Co, Md.(1886)\
Children were:\
Thomas B COY,\
Susannah (Sukey) COY,\
Elizabeth Ann COY,\
Samuel COY,\
Ester (Hessy or Hessie) COY,\
Sarah Sally COY,\
Betsy COY,\
William COY Jr.,\
Celia (Seely) COY,\
Mary COY,\
Frances COY,\
Nancy COY.\
BIOGRAPHY: William Coy born March 10, 1756 in Somerset County, Maryland.\
At the age of twenty-one William enlisted in the Army July 1777 from Montgomery County, Maryland for\
a period of five months to serve in the Revolutionary War. He served under Captain Nathaniel Pigman,\
Col. Mordock, and General Smallwood's Brigade during the battle of Germantown. After his discharge\
from active duty, he met a Mary Ann Dennis and they were married November 25, 1779. In October of\
1781, William was drafted in the Army to serve for another five months. He was assigned as one of the\
guards over General Cornwallis' men (Hessians), at Frederickstown.\
Source: Robert L. Kelley, The Scotts of Hominy Ridge (2000), page 25}